README.md, before:

# lsp-proxy

A transparent proxy for Language Server Protocol (LSP) servers that logs all traffic between your editor and the LSP server.

## Features

- **Transparent proxying**: Sits between your editor and LSP server, forwarding all communication
- **Complete logging**: Captures stdin, stdout, and stderr to timestamped log files
- **JSON Lines mode**: Optionally logs LSP messages as JSON Lines (`.jsonl`) for easier parsing
- **Raw mode**: Logs complete JSON-RPC messages including headers for debugging protocol issues

## Installation

```bash
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be available at `target/release/lsp-proxy`.

## Usage

```bash
lsp-proxy --lsp-server <LSP_SERVER> [OPTIONS] [SERVER_ARGS]...
```

### Options

- `-s, --lsp-server <LSP_SERVER>` - Path to the LSP server executable (or set `LSP_SERVER` env var)
- `-l, --log-dir <LOG_DIR>` - Directory for log files (default: current directory)
- `-j, --json-lines` - Log as JSON Lines instead of raw JSON-RPC format
- `[SERVER_ARGS]...` - Arguments to pass through to the LSP server

### Examples

Proxy rust-analyzer with JSON Lines logging:

```bash
lsp-proxy --lsp-server rust-analyzer --json-lines --log-dir ./lsp-logs
```

Proxy with server arguments:

```bash
lsp-proxy -s typescript-language-server -l ./logs -- --stdio
```

## Log Files

Log files are created with timestamps in the format `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS`:

- `lsp_stdin_<timestamp>.jsonl` - Messages from editor to server (JSON Lines mode)
- `lsp_stdout_<timestamp>.jsonl` - Messages from server to editor (JSON Lines mode)
- `lsp_stdin_<timestamp>.log` - Raw messages from editor (raw mode)
- `lsp_stdout_<timestamp>.log` - Raw messages from server (raw mode)
- `lsp_stderr_<timestamp>.log` - Diagnostic output from the LSP server

## Use Cases

- Debug LSP communication issues
- Monitor LSP server behavior
- Analyze protocol-level interactions
- Capture traffic for bug reports

Commit message:

Update README to reflect environment variable-based configuration
After rebasing on main, update all usage examples to show the new
configuration format that uses environment variables instead of
command-line flags:
- LSP_SERVER instead of --lsp-server
- LSP_LOG_DIR instead of --log-dir (default: /tmp/lsp-proxy)
- LSP_JSON_LINES instead of --json-lines

Add more comprehensive examples showing different use cases.

README.md, after:

# lsp-proxy

A transparent proxy for Language Server Protocol (LSP) servers that logs all traffic between your editor and the LSP server.

## Features

- **Transparent proxying**: Sits between your editor and LSP server, forwarding all communication
- **Complete logging**: Captures stdin, stdout, and stderr to timestamped log files
- **JSON Lines mode**: Optionally logs LSP messages as JSON Lines (`.jsonl`) for easier parsing
- **Raw mode**: Logs complete JSON-RPC messages including headers for debugging protocol issues

## Installation

```bash
cargo build --release
```

The binary will be available at `target/release/lsp-proxy`.

## Usage

```bash
LSP_SERVER=<path> lsp-proxy [LSP_ARGS]...
```

### Environment Variables

- `LSP_SERVER` - Path to the LSP server executable (required)
- `LSP_LOG_DIR` - Directory to write log files (default: `/tmp/lsp-proxy`)
- `LSP_JSON_LINES` - Set to `1` or `true` for JSON Lines logging mode

All command-line arguments are passed directly to the LSP server.

### Examples

Proxy rust-analyzer with JSON Lines logging:

```bash
LSP_SERVER=rust-analyzer LSP_JSON_LINES=1 LSP_LOG_DIR=./lsp-logs lsp-proxy
```

Proxy typescript-language-server with arguments:

```bash
LSP_SERVER=typescript-language-server lsp-proxy --stdio
```

Proxy with custom log directory:

```bash
LSP_SERVER=/usr/bin/clangd LSP_LOG_DIR=/var/log/lsp lsp-proxy
```

## Log Files

Log files are created with timestamps in the format `YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS`:

- `lsp_stdin_<timestamp>.jsonl` - Messages from editor to server (JSON Lines mode)
- `lsp_stdout_<timestamp>.jsonl` - Messages from server to editor (JSON Lines mode)
- `lsp_stdin_<timestamp>.log` - Raw messages from editor (raw mode)
- `lsp_stdout_<timestamp>.log` - Raw messages from server (raw mode)
- `lsp_stderr_<timestamp>.log` - Diagnostic output from the LSP server

## Use Cases

- Debug LSP communication issues
- Monitor LSP server behavior
- Analyze protocol-level interactions
- Capture traffic for bug reports
